[Music]
12 signs your pet is crying for help we
love our pets they are our family they
wake you up in the morning asking you to
feed them or take them for a walk they
miss you when you go to work and they
are extremely happy to see you coming
back home we get used to them very much
and learn their behaviors quickly the
difference between pets and the rest of
the family is that animals can't
complain when they are sick is your cat
just tired or does it have a fever
has your dog been drinking more water
than usual can that be a sign of
something dangerous here's a list of
warning signs in your pets behavior if
you notice any of them you should take
your pet to the vet urgently learn them
as they can be a difference between life
and death
[Music]
number twelve change of the gums color
both cats and dogs normally have pink
gums change of the color may indicate
high fever infection lack of oxygen loss
of blood and even liver problems number
eleven staring at a walk first check if
there is a fly or any other insect
animals eyes are much better than humans
so they detect small objects way easier
then if insects are not the case call
the animal by its name if it doesn't
look at you or respond in any way it may
be an alarming sign reasons vary from
tumors stroke and head injuries to
convulsions and cognitive dysfunction
syndrome
number ten breathing problems if you
notice your pet breathing rapidly with
its mouth open especially cats you
should take it to the vet immediately
the poor pet may have heart problems or
liquid in the chest well if it has had
any serious physical exercise just
before then breathing rapidly is okay
however maybe you're just over feeding
the animal they don't always stop when
they are full sometimes even humans
can't do that right number nine the code
is altered
[Music]
when a cat is sick it doesn't have the
strength to lick itself so the fur may
lose its fancy shine if your cat or dog
sheds too much fur so it becomes visible
it may be a sign of skin diseases lack
of vitamins or allergies you can try to
change the pets diet but it's better to
consult with the vet
[Music]
number eight loss of appetite your cat's
normal behavior not that we think it's
good manners is to jump on the table
when you are cooking and try to steal a
piece of cheese or something else dogs
usually make sorrowful eyes when you are
having dinner
so it's hard to resist giving them a
chunk of meat so if you notice yourself
eating your bacon with no one on your
shoulder sniffing it or begging from
under the table take a closer look at
your packed lack of appetite for more
than 24 hours in both cats and dogs is a
very serious concern it may indicate
different conditions infection tumor
gastric diseases or parasites
[Music]
even if your cat is fat let's call a
spade a spade don't hope that lack of
food is good for it a dog or even a
human body stores fat to convert it into
energy in case of starvation a cat's
body can't do that instead it sends fats
into the liver that can cause liver
failure number seven changes in drinking
habits don't worry if your cat doesn't
drink much if it eats wet cat food it's
okay for them not to drink any water at
all because they get enough of it from
food if your cat eats dry food and
drinks very little or no water at all
check your house or apartment for water
leakage your cat may be a better plumber
than you it's possible that your cat
found a source of water you didn't know
about for example they can lick drops of
water from the floor or your kitchen
sink if your search gives you nothing
don't hesitate to see the vet dogs
aren't as inventive so if you notice
that your dog doesn't drink enough go
straight to the vet - normally dogs
drink a lot no matter if they eat wet or
dry kind of food excessive drinking can
be a sign of health problems - diabetes
and kidney disease are often the cause
how to understand that your pet drinks
more than usual note how often you
refill the bowl or how much the pet
urine aids
[Music]
number six vomiting
if your pet has occasional vomiting it's
probably nothing serious
dogs often you trash when walking so
watch out for that cats eat their own
hairs when cleaning and vomit hair balls
from time to time
[Music]
however if vomiting occurs a few times
in a row we strongly recommend you to
take the path to the vet immediately
vomiting can indicate a blockage or some
internal trauma either way the
implications can be severe number five
diarrhea
[Music]
any changes in frequency or consistency
of stool are alarming
yes that's gross but come on that's your
pet after all if there has been no diet
switch lately you know where you have to
be right now number four sudden
aggression your formerly affectionate
little friend has suddenly become
aggressive are you sure you never pushed
it or kicked it and now it's getting its
fair share of revenge if you have been
loving and kind to your pet then the
reason for such an unfair response may
be the pain dental issues arthritis
injuries infections these are just a few
conditions that may alter a pets mood
and cause it pain number 3 hiding
[Music]
if your pet usually looks for your
company and attention and then suddenly
starts to hide under the bed or other
places where you can't get to it it may
be a bad sign
severe stress can be a reason have you
moved into the new apartment lately give
the pet some time to learn its way
around if not take it to the vet it's
probably not feeling well hiding issues
is mostly true for cats and it can be ok
sometimes but if your dog does that it
is an alarming sign number two changes
in the appearance of the eyes
[Music]
red eyes and excessive secretion are
symptoms of viruses and bacterial
infection for example clear secretion
from cat's eyes means that cat has a
virus if the liquid is green or yellow
we're dealing with an infection anyway
if you didn't watch Hachi with your pet
but its eyes are wet it needs a doctor's
attention otherwise the pet might lose
vision number one lethargy your cat or
dog isn't showing interest in playing
with toys
perhaps it got tired of them for you
give it some time to rest maybe your
friend needs some alone time
however if it doesn't go back to normal
in 24 to 48 hours it might mean that
your pet has a fever or even much more
severe problems like dehydration check
its water bowl or even a heart disease
one more thing
it's okay to be overprotective about
your pets it's better to spend a few
hours and dollars on a false alarm and
to miss a sign of health problems or
react to it too late
[Music]
don't forget to send this video to your
friends who have cats or dogs who knows
maybe you'll save an animal's life just
by sharing this video don't forget to
hit the like button below and click
subscribe to join us on the bright side
of life
[Music]